readme.md, before:

# utPLSQL v3<sub><sup> | Powerful PL/SQL Unit Testing Framework </sup></sub>

[![latest-release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/utPLSQL/utPLSQL.svg)](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL/releases)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/utPLSQL/utPLSQL.svg)](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
[![chat](http://img.shields.io/badge/slack-team--chat-blue.svg)](http://utplsql-slack-invite.herokuapp.com/)
[![twitter](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/utPLSQL.svg?style=social&label=Follow)](https://twitter.com/utPLSQL)

[![build](https://img.shields.io/travis/utPLSQL/utPLSQL/master.svg?label=master%20branch)](https://travis-ci.org/utPLSQL/utPLSQL)
[![build](https://img.shields.io/travis/utPLSQL/utPLSQL/develop.svg?label=develop%20branch)](https://travis-ci.org/utPLSQL/utPLSQL)
[![sonar](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=utPLSQL&metric=sqale_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard/index?id=utPLSQL)
[![Coveralls coverage](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/utPLSQL/utPLSQL/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://coveralls.io/github/utPLSQL/utPLSQL?branch=develop)

----------
utPLSQL version 3 is a complete rewrite of utPLSQL v2 from scratch.
Version 2 still supports older versions of Oracle that are no longer available. 
The community that had developed on GitHub decided that a new internal architecture was needed, from that version 3 was born.  

# Introduction
utPLSQL is a Unit Testing framework for Oracle PL/SQL and SQL. 
The framework follows industry standards and best patterns of modern Unit Testing frameworks like [JUnit](http://junit.org/junit4/) and [RSpec](http://rspec.info/)


# Key features

- multiple ways to compare data with [matchers](docs/userguide/expectations.md)
- native comparison of complex types (objects/collections/cursors)
- in-depth and consistent reporting of failures and errors for tests
- tests identified and configured by [annotations](docs/userguide/annotations.md)
- hierarchies of test suites configured with annotations
- automatic (configurable) transaction control
- Build-in [coverage](docs/userguide/coverage.md) reporting
- Integration with SonarQube, Coveralls, Jenkins and Teamcity with [reporters](docs/userguide/reporters.md)
- plugin architecture for reporters and matchers
- flexible and simple test invocation
- multi-reporting from test-run from [command line](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL-cli)

Requirements:
 - Version of Oracle under [extended support](http://www.oracle.com/us/support/library/lifetime-support-technology-069183.pdf) (Currently 11.2 and above)

# Download

Published releases are available for download on the [utPLSQL GitHub Releases Page.](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL/releases)

# Documentation

Full documentation of the project is automatically published on [utPLSQL github pages](https://utplsql.github.io/utPLSQL/)

[Cheat-sheets](https://www.cheatography.com/jgebal/lists/utplsql-v3-cheat-sheets/)

# Installation

To install the utPLSQL into a new database schema and grant it to public, execute the script `install_headless.sql`.
This will create a new user `UT3`, grant all required privileges to that user and create PUBLIC synonyms needed.

For detailed instructions on other install options see the [Install Guide](docs/userguide/install.md)


# Running tests

To execute using development IDE (TOAD/SQLDeveloper/PLSQLDeveloper/other) use one of following commands.
```sql
begin
  ut.run();
end;
/
```
```sql
exec  ut.run();
```
```sql
select * from table(ut.run());
```

The above commands will run all the suites in the current schema and provide report to dbms_output or as a select statement.

# Command line client

You can use the utPLSQL command line client [utPLSQL-cli](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL-cli) to run tests without the need for Oracle Client or any IDE like SQLDeveloper/TOAD etc.

Amongst many benefits it provides ability to:
* see the progress of test execution for long-running tests - real-time reporting
* use many reporting formats simultaneously and save reports to files (publish)
* map your project source files and test files into database objects 

Just download the [latest client](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL-cli/releases/latest), download Oracle jdbc driver you are good to go.
See [project readme](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL-cli/blob/develop/README.md) for details.  


# Example unit test packages

**For examples of using Continuous Integration Server & SonarCloud with utPLSQL see the [utPLSQL demo project](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL-demo-project/).**


The below test package is a fully-functional Unit Test package for testing a [`betwnstr` function](examples/between_string/betwnstr.sql).
The package specification is [annotated](docs/userguide/annotations.md) with special comments.
The annotations define that a package is a unit test suite, they also allow defining a description for the suite as well as the test itself.
The package body consists of procedures containing unit test code. To validate [an expectation](docs/userguide/expectations.md) in test, use `ut.expect( actual_data ).to_( ... )` syntax.

```sql
create or replace package test_between_string as

  -- %suite(Between string function)

  -- %test(Returns substring from start position to end position)
  procedure normal_case;

  -- %test(Returns substring when start position is zero)
  procedure zero_start_position;

  -- %test(Returns string until end if end position is greater than string length)
  procedure big_end_position;

  -- %test(Returns null for null input string value)
  procedure null_string;
end;
/

create or replace package body test_between_string as

  procedure normal_case is
  begin
    ut.expect( betwnstr( '1234567', 2, 5 ) ).to_( equal('2345') );
  end;

  procedure zero_start_position is
  begin
    ut.expect( betwnstr( '1234567', 0, 5 ) ).to_( equal('12345') );
  end;

  procedure big_end_position is
  begin
    ut.expect( betwnstr( '1234567', 0, 500 ) ).to_( equal('1234567') );
  end;

  procedure null_string is
  begin
    ut.expect( betwnstr( null, 2, 5 ) ).to_( be_null );
  end;

end;
/
```

Outputs from running the above tests
```
Between string function
  Returns substring from start position to end position
  Returns substring when start position is zero
  Returns string until end if end position is greater than string length
  Returns null for null input string value

Finished in .036027 seconds
4 tests, 0 failures
```


# Contributing to the project

We welcome new developers to join our community and contribute to the utPLSQL project.
If you are interested in helping please read our [guide to contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md)
The best place to start is to read the documentation and get familiar with the existing code base.
A [slack chat](https://utplsql.slack.com/) is the place to go if you want to talk with team members.
To sign up to the chat use [this link](http://utplsql-slack-invite.herokuapp.com/)


----------
[__Authors__](docs/about/authors.md)

----------
__Version 2 to Version 3 Comparison__

If you have a great feature in mind, that you would like to see in utPLSQL v3 please create an [issue on GitHub](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL/issues) or discuss it with us in the [Slack chat rooms](http://utplsql-slack-invite.herokuapp.com/).  


| Feature                                | Version 2              | Version 3              |
| -------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------- |
| Easy to install                        | Yes                    | Yes                    |
| Documentation                          | Yes                    | Yes                    |
| License                                | GPL v2                 | Apache 2.0             |
| **Tests Creation**                     |                        |                        |
| Declarative test configuration         | No                     | Yes - Annotations<sup>1</sup>|
| Tests as Packages                      | Yes                    | Yes                    |
| Multiple Tests in a single Package     | Yes                    | Yes                    |
| Optional Setup/Teardown                | No                     | Yes                    |
| Different Setup/Teardown <br/> For Each Test in a Single Package| No  | Yes - Annotations<sup>1</sup> |
| Suite Definition Storage               | Tables                 | Package - Annotations<sup>1</sup> |
| Multiple Suites                        | Yes                    | Yes                    |
| Suites can contain Suites              | No                     | Yes                    |
| Automatic Test detection               | No                     | Yes - Annotations<sup>1</sup>|
| Unconstrained naming of Test packages  | No - prefixes          | Yes - name not relevant|
| Require Prefix on Test procedures      | No - prefixes          | Yes - name not relevant|
| Auto Compilation of Tests              | Yes                    | No (Let us know if you use this) | 
| Assertion Library                      | 30 assertions<sup>2</sup> | 26 matchers (13 + 13 negated) |
| Extendable assertions                  | No                     | Yes - custom matchers  |
| PLSQL Record Assertions	             | generated code through **utRecEq** Package | [possible on Oracle 12c+](https://oracle-base.com/articles/12c/using-the-table-operator-with-locally-defined-types-in-plsql-12cr1) using [cursor matchers](docs/userguide/expectations.md#comparing-cursors)| 
| Test Skeleton Generation               | Yes                    | No (Let us know if you use this) |
| **Test Execution<sup>3</sup>**         |                        |                        |
| Single Test Package Execution          |  Yes                   | Yes                    | 
| Single Test Procedure Execution        |  No                    | Yes                    | 
| Test Suite Execution                   |  Yes                   | Yes                    |
| Subset of Suite Execution              |  No                    | Yes                    |
| Multiple Suite Execution               |  No                    | Yes                    |
| Organizing Suites into hierarchies     |  No                    | Yes                    |
| **Code Coverage Reporting**            |  No                    | Yes                    |
| Html Coverage Report                   |  No                    | Yes                    |
| Sonar XML Coverage Report              |  No                    | Yes                    |
| Coveralls Json Coverage Report         |  No                    | Yes                    |
| Framework Transaction Control          |  No                    | Yes - Annotations<sup>1</sup> | 
| **Test Output**                        |                        |                        |
| Real-time test execution progress reporting | No                | Yes                    |
| Multiple Output Reporters can be used during test execution | No| Yes                    |
| DBMS_OUTPUT                            | Yes                    | Yes (clean formatting) |
| File                                   | Yes (to db server only)| Yes (on client side)   |
| Stored in Table                        | Yes                    | No (can be added as custom reporter) |
| XUnit format support                   | No                     | Yes                    |
| HTML Format                            | Yes                    | No                     |
| Custom Output reporter                 | Yes-needs configuration| Yes - no config needed |

<sup>1</sup> Annotations are specially formatted comments in your package specification.  This enables *declarative* test configuration that is coupled with the source code.   See Documentation for more details. 

<sup>2</sup> **utAssert2** package - Contains 59 Assertions - 2 Not implemented = 57, 28 are duplicated only change on outcome_in parameter 57-28 = 29, **utPipe** package - Contains 1 Assertion 29 + 1 = 30

<sup>3</sup> Test execution comparison is in a single call so the results are combined.   We know it was always possible to group in any way with multiple calls.  But that may not be desired under a CI system where you want a single JUnit XML Output.


----------
__Project Directories__

* .travis - contains files needed for travis-ci integration
* client_source - Sources to be used on the client-side. Developer workstation or CI platform to run the tests.
* development - Set of useful scripts and utilities for development and debugging of utPLSQL 
* docs - Documentation of the project 
* examples - Example source code and unit tests
* source - The installation code for utPLSQL
* tests - Tests for utPLSQL framework

-----------
# Supporters

__Disclaimer__: The utPLSQL project is completely free and independent from any commercial intent. Companies who support the project
are listed here with a complete description of their contribution. Although we are grateful for the support, being mentioned does not mean endorsement of
 or recommendation for the companys' products by utPLSQL or its development team.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><a href="https://www.red-gate.com/hub/events/open-source-projects" rel="nofollow"><img src="docs/images/supported_by_redgate_100.png" alt="supported_by_redgate" style="max-width:100%;"></a></td>
<td>utPLSQL has been supported by Redgate in the form of sponsored stickers and t-shirts. Thank you for helping us spreading the word!</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

Change disclaimer to be not overly defensive.
The transparency we build by detailing the contributions is enough

readme.md, after:

# utPLSQL v3<sub><sup> | Powerful PL/SQL Unit Testing Framework </sup></sub>

[![latest-release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/utPLSQL/utPLSQL.svg)](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL/releases)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/utPLSQL/utPLSQL.svg)](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
[![chat](http://img.shields.io/badge/slack-team--chat-blue.svg)](http://utplsql-slack-invite.herokuapp.com/)
[![twitter](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/utPLSQL.svg?style=social&label=Follow)](https://twitter.com/utPLSQL)

[![build](https://img.shields.io/travis/utPLSQL/utPLSQL/master.svg?label=master%20branch)](https://travis-ci.org/utPLSQL/utPLSQL)
[![build](https://img.shields.io/travis/utPLSQL/utPLSQL/develop.svg?label=develop%20branch)](https://travis-ci.org/utPLSQL/utPLSQL)
[![sonar](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=utPLSQL&metric=sqale_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard/index?id=utPLSQL)
[![Coveralls coverage](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/utPLSQL/utPLSQL/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://coveralls.io/github/utPLSQL/utPLSQL?branch=develop)

----------
utPLSQL version 3 is a complete rewrite of utPLSQL v2 from scratch.
Version 2 still supports older versions of Oracle that are no longer available. 
The community that had developed on GitHub decided that a new internal architecture was needed, from that version 3 was born.  

# Introduction
utPLSQL is a Unit Testing framework for Oracle PL/SQL and SQL. 
The framework follows industry standards and best patterns of modern Unit Testing frameworks like [JUnit](http://junit.org/junit4/) and [RSpec](http://rspec.info/)


# Key features

- multiple ways to compare data with [matchers](docs/userguide/expectations.md)
- native comparison of complex types (objects/collections/cursors)
- in-depth and consistent reporting of failures and errors for tests
- tests identified and configured by [annotations](docs/userguide/annotations.md)
- hierarchies of test suites configured with annotations
- automatic (configurable) transaction control
- Build-in [coverage](docs/userguide/coverage.md) reporting
- Integration with SonarQube, Coveralls, Jenkins and Teamcity with [reporters](docs/userguide/reporters.md)
- plugin architecture for reporters and matchers
- flexible and simple test invocation
- multi-reporting from test-run from [command line](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL-cli)

Requirements:
 - Version of Oracle under [extended support](http://www.oracle.com/us/support/library/lifetime-support-technology-069183.pdf) (Currently 11.2 and above)

# Download

Published releases are available for download on the [utPLSQL GitHub Releases Page.](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL/releases)

# Documentation

Full documentation of the project is automatically published on [utPLSQL github pages](https://utplsql.github.io/utPLSQL/)

[Cheat-sheets](https://www.cheatography.com/jgebal/lists/utplsql-v3-cheat-sheets/)

# Installation

To install the utPLSQL into a new database schema and grant it to public, execute the script `install_headless.sql`.
This will create a new user `UT3`, grant all required privileges to that user and create PUBLIC synonyms needed.

For detailed instructions on other install options see the [Install Guide](docs/userguide/install.md)


# Running tests

To execute using development IDE (TOAD/SQLDeveloper/PLSQLDeveloper/other) use one of following commands.
```sql
begin
  ut.run();
end;
/
```
```sql
exec  ut.run();
```
```sql
select * from table(ut.run());
```

The above commands will run all the suites in the current schema and provide report to dbms_output or as a select statement.

# Command line client

You can use the utPLSQL command line client [utPLSQL-cli](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL-cli) to run tests without the need for Oracle Client or any IDE like SQLDeveloper/TOAD etc.

Amongst many benefits it provides ability to:
* see the progress of test execution for long-running tests - real-time reporting
* use many reporting formats simultaneously and save reports to files (publish)
* map your project source files and test files into database objects 

Just download the [latest client](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL-cli/releases/latest), download Oracle jdbc driver you are good to go.
See [project readme](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL-cli/blob/develop/README.md) for details.  


# Example unit test packages

**For examples of using Continuous Integration Server & SonarCloud with utPLSQL see the [utPLSQL demo project](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL-demo-project/).**


The below test package is a fully-functional Unit Test package for testing a [`betwnstr` function](examples/between_string/betwnstr.sql).
The package specification is [annotated](docs/userguide/annotations.md) with special comments.
The annotations define that a package is a unit test suite, they also allow defining a description for the suite as well as the test itself.
The package body consists of procedures containing unit test code. To validate [an expectation](docs/userguide/expectations.md) in test, use `ut.expect( actual_data ).to_( ... )` syntax.

```sql
create or replace package test_between_string as

  -- %suite(Between string function)

  -- %test(Returns substring from start position to end position)
  procedure normal_case;

  -- %test(Returns substring when start position is zero)
  procedure zero_start_position;

  -- %test(Returns string until end if end position is greater than string length)
  procedure big_end_position;

  -- %test(Returns null for null input string value)
  procedure null_string;
end;
/

create or replace package body test_between_string as

  procedure normal_case is
  begin
    ut.expect( betwnstr( '1234567', 2, 5 ) ).to_( equal('2345') );
  end;

  procedure zero_start_position is
  begin
    ut.expect( betwnstr( '1234567', 0, 5 ) ).to_( equal('12345') );
  end;

  procedure big_end_position is
  begin
    ut.expect( betwnstr( '1234567', 0, 500 ) ).to_( equal('1234567') );
  end;

  procedure null_string is
  begin
    ut.expect( betwnstr( null, 2, 5 ) ).to_( be_null );
  end;

end;
/
```

Outputs from running the above tests
```
Between string function
  Returns substring from start position to end position
  Returns substring when start position is zero
  Returns string until end if end position is greater than string length
  Returns null for null input string value

Finished in .036027 seconds
4 tests, 0 failures
```


# Contributing to the project

We welcome new developers to join our community and contribute to the utPLSQL project.
If you are interested in helping please read our [guide to contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md)
The best place to start is to read the documentation and get familiar with the existing code base.
A [slack chat](https://utplsql.slack.com/) is the place to go if you want to talk with team members.
To sign up to the chat use [this link](http://utplsql-slack-invite.herokuapp.com/)


----------
[__Authors__](docs/about/authors.md)

----------
__Version 2 to Version 3 Comparison__

If you have a great feature in mind, that you would like to see in utPLSQL v3 please create an [issue on GitHub](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL/issues) or discuss it with us in the [Slack chat rooms](http://utplsql-slack-invite.herokuapp.com/).  


| Feature                                | Version 2              | Version 3              |
| -------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------- |
| Easy to install                        | Yes                    | Yes                    |
| Documentation                          | Yes                    | Yes                    |
| License                                | GPL v2                 | Apache 2.0             |
| **Tests Creation**                     |                        |                        |
| Declarative test configuration         | No                     | Yes - Annotations<sup>1</sup>|
| Tests as Packages                      | Yes                    | Yes                    |
| Multiple Tests in a single Package     | Yes                    | Yes                    |
| Optional Setup/Teardown                | No                     | Yes                    |
| Different Setup/Teardown <br/> For Each Test in a Single Package| No  | Yes - Annotations<sup>1</sup> |
| Suite Definition Storage               | Tables                 | Package - Annotations<sup>1</sup> |
| Multiple Suites                        | Yes                    | Yes                    |
| Suites can contain Suites              | No                     | Yes                    |
| Automatic Test detection               | No                     | Yes - Annotations<sup>1</sup>|
| Unconstrained naming of Test packages  | No - prefixes          | Yes - name not relevant|
| Require Prefix on Test procedures      | No - prefixes          | Yes - name not relevant|
| Auto Compilation of Tests              | Yes                    | No (Let us know if you use this) | 
| Assertion Library                      | 30 assertions<sup>2</sup> | 26 matchers (13 + 13 negated) |
| Extendable assertions                  | No                     | Yes - custom matchers  |
| PLSQL Record Assertions	             | generated code through **utRecEq** Package | [possible on Oracle 12c+](https://oracle-base.com/articles/12c/using-the-table-operator-with-locally-defined-types-in-plsql-12cr1) using [cursor matchers](docs/userguide/expectations.md#comparing-cursors)| 
| Test Skeleton Generation               | Yes                    | No (Let us know if you use this) |
| **Test Execution<sup>3</sup>**         |                        |                        |
| Single Test Package Execution          |  Yes                   | Yes                    | 
| Single Test Procedure Execution        |  No                    | Yes                    | 
| Test Suite Execution                   |  Yes                   | Yes                    |
| Subset of Suite Execution              |  No                    | Yes                    |
| Multiple Suite Execution               |  No                    | Yes                    |
| Organizing Suites into hierarchies     |  No                    | Yes                    |
| **Code Coverage Reporting**            |  No                    | Yes                    |
| Html Coverage Report                   |  No                    | Yes                    |
| Sonar XML Coverage Report              |  No                    | Yes                    |
| Coveralls Json Coverage Report         |  No                    | Yes                    |
| Framework Transaction Control          |  No                    | Yes - Annotations<sup>1</sup> | 
| **Test Output**                        |                        |                        |
| Real-time test execution progress reporting | No                | Yes                    |
| Multiple Output Reporters can be used during test execution | No| Yes                    |
| DBMS_OUTPUT                            | Yes                    | Yes (clean formatting) |
| File                                   | Yes (to db server only)| Yes (on client side)   |
| Stored in Table                        | Yes                    | No (can be added as custom reporter) |
| XUnit format support                   | No                     | Yes                    |
| HTML Format                            | Yes                    | No                     |
| Custom Output reporter                 | Yes-needs configuration| Yes - no config needed |

<sup>1</sup> Annotations are specially formatted comments in your package specification.  This enables *declarative* test configuration that is coupled with the source code.   See Documentation for more details. 

<sup>2</sup> **utAssert2** package - Contains 59 Assertions - 2 Not implemented = 57, 28 are duplicated only change on outcome_in parameter 57-28 = 29, **utPipe** package - Contains 1 Assertion 29 + 1 = 30

<sup>3</sup> Test execution comparison is in a single call so the results are combined.   We know it was always possible to group in any way with multiple calls.  But that may not be desired under a CI system where you want a single JUnit XML Output.


----------
__Project Directories__

* .travis - contains files needed for travis-ci integration
* client_source - Sources to be used on the client-side. Developer workstation or CI platform to run the tests.
* development - Set of useful scripts and utilities for development and debugging of utPLSQL 
* docs - Documentation of the project 
* examples - Example source code and unit tests
* source - The installation code for utPLSQL
* tests - Tests for utPLSQL framework

-----------
# Supporters

The utPLSQL project is community-driven and is not commercially motivated. Nonetheless, donations and other contributions are always welcome, and are detailed below.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><a href="https://www.red-gate.com/hub/events/open-source-projects" rel="nofollow"><img src="docs/images/supported_by_redgate_100.png" alt="supported_by_redgate" style="max-width:100%;"></a></td>
<td>utPLSQL has been supported by Redgate in the form of sponsored stickers and t-shirts. Thank you for helping us spreading the word!</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
