develop/userguide/running-unit-tests.md, before:

# Running tests

utPLSQL framework provides two main entry points to run unit tests from within the database: 

- `ut.run` procedures and functions
- `ut_runner.run` procedures

These two entry points differ in purpose and behavior.
Most of the time you will want to use `ut.run` as `ut_runner.run` is designed for API integration and does not display the results to the screen.

# Running from CI servers and command line

The best way to run your tests from CI server or command line is to use the [utPLSQL-cli](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL-cli) command line client.

Amongst many benefits it provides ability to:
* see the progress of test execution for long-running tests - real-time reporting
* use many reporting formats simultaneously and save reports to files (publish)
* map your project source files and test files into database objects 

You may download the latest release of the command line client from [here](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL-cli/releases/latest) or do it automatically using the command below (Unix).

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# Get the url to latest release "zip" file
DOWNLOAD_URL=$(curl --silent https://api.github.com/repos/utPLSQL/utPLSQL-cli/releases/latest | awk '/zipball_url/ { print $2 }' | sed -r 's/"|,//g')
# Download the latest release "zip" file
curl -Lk "${DOWNLOAD_URL}" -o utplsql-cli.zip
# Extract downloaded "zip" file
unzip -q utplsql-cli.zip
```

# ut.run

The `ut` package contains overloaded `run` procedures and functions.
The `run` API is designed to be called directly by a developer when using an IDE/SQL console to execute unit tests.
The main benefit of using this API is it's simplicity.
A single line call is enough to execute a set of tests from one or more schemes.

The **procedures** execute the specified tests and produce output to DBMS_OUTPUT using the specified reporter.
The **functions** can only be used in SELECT statements. They execute the specified tests and produce outputs as a pipelined data stream to be consumed by a select statement.

## ut.run procedures

The examples below illustrate different ways and options to invoke `ut.run` procedures.

```sql
alter session set current_schema=hr;
begin
  ut.run();
end;
```
Executes all tests in current schema (_HR_).


```sql
begin
  ut.run('HR');
end;
```
Executes all tests in specified schema (_HR_).


```sql
begin
  ut.run('hr:com.my_org.my_project');
end;
```

Executes all tests from all packages that are on the _com.my_org.my_project_ suitepath.
Check the [annotations documentation](annotations.md) to find out about suitepaths and how they can be used to organize test packages for your project.


```sql
begin
  ut.run('hr.test_apply_bonus');
end;
```
Executes all tests from package _hr.test_apply_bonus_. 


```sql
begin
  ut.run('hr.test_apply_bonus.bonus_cannot_be_negative');
end;
```
Executes single test procedure _hr.test_apply_bonus.bonus_cannot_be_negative_.


```sql
begin
  ut.run(ut_varchar2_list('hr.test_apply_bonus','cust'));
end;
```
Executes all tests from package _hr.test_apply_bonus_ and all tests from schema _cust_.

```sql
begin
  ut.run(ut_varchar2_list('hr.test_apply_bonus,cust)');
end;
```

Executes all tests from package _hr.test_apply_bonus_ and all tests from schema _cust_.

```sql
begin
  ut.run('hr.test_apply_bonus,cust');
end;
```

Executes all tests from package _hr.test_apply_bonus_ and all tests from schema _cust_.

Using a list of items to execute allows you to execute a fine-grained set of tests.

List can be passed as a comma separated list or a list of *ut_varchar2_list objects* or as a list within ut_varchar2_list.


**Note:**

`ut_documentation_reporter` is the default reporter for all APIs defined for running unit tests.

The `ut.run` procedures and functions accept `a_reporter` attribute that defines the reporter to be used in the run.
You can execute any set of tests with any of the predefined reporters.

```sql
begin
  ut.run('hr.test_apply_bonus', ut_junit_reporter());
end;
```
Executes all tests from package _HR.TEST_APPLY_BONUS_ and provide outputs to DBMS_OUTPUT using the JUnit reporter. 


For details on build-in reporters look at [reporters documentation](reporters.md).

## ut.run functions

The `ut.run` functions provide exactly the same functionality as the `ut.run` procedures. 
You may use the same sets of parameters with both functions and procedures. 
The only difference is the output of the results.
Functions provide output as a pipelined stream and therefore need to be executed as select statements.

Example.
```sql
select * from table(ut.run('hr.test_apply_bonus', ut_junit_reporter()));
```

# ut_runner.run procedures

The `ut_runner` package provides an API for integrating utPLSQL with other products. Maven, Jenkins, SQL Develper, PL/SQL Developer, TOAD and others can leverage this API to call utPLSQL.

The main difference compared to the `ut.run` API is that `ut_runner.run` does not print output to the screen.

`ut_runner.run` accepts multiple reporters. Each reporter pipes to a separate output (uniquely identified by output_id).
Outputs of multiple reporters can be consumed in parallel. This allows for live reporting of test execution progress with threads and several database sessions.

The concept is pretty simple.

- in the main thread (session), define the reporters to be used. Each reporter has it's output_id and so you need to extract and store those output_ids.
- as a separate thread, start `ut_runner.run` and pass reporters with previously defined output_ids.
- for each reporter start a separate thread and read outputs from the `ut_output_buffer.get_lines` table function by providing the output_id defined in the main thread.
  
# Reports characterset encoding

To get properly encoded reports, when running utPLSQL with HTML/XML reports on data containing national characters you need to provide your client character set when calling `ut.run` functions and procedures.

If you run your tests using `utPLSQL-cli`, this is done automatically and no action needs to be taken.

To make sure that the reports will display your national characters properly when running from IDE like SQLDeveloper/TOAD/SQLPlus or sqlcl you need to provide the charaterset manualy to `ut.run`.

Example call with characterset provided:
```sql
begin
  ut.run('hr.test_apply_bonus', ut_junit_reporter(), a_client_character_set => 'Windows-1251');
end;
```

Commit message:

Deploy to gh-pages branch: base commit 3e5d1ba9004d6ee2d2a195e51a2846063c371604

develop/userguide/running-unit-tests.md, after:

# Running tests

utPLSQL framework provides two main entry points to run unit tests from within the database: 

- `ut.run` procedures and functions
- `ut_runner.run` procedures

These two entry points differ in purpose and behavior.
Most of the time you will want to use `ut.run` as `ut_runner.run` is designed for API integration and does not display the results to the screen.

# Running from CI servers and command line

The best way to run your tests from CI server or command line is to use the [utPLSQL-cli](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL-cli) command line client.

Amongst many benefits it provides ability to:
* see the progress of test execution for long-running tests - real-time reporting
* use many reporting formats simultaneously and save reports to files (publish)
* map your project source files and test files into database objects 

You may download the latest release of the command line client from [here](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL-cli/releases/latest) or do it automatically using the command below (Unix).

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# Get the url to latest release "zip" file
DOWNLOAD_URL=$(curl --silent https://api.github.com/repos/utPLSQL/utPLSQL-cli/releases/latest | awk '/zipball_url/ { print $2 }' | sed -r 's/"|,//g')
# Download the latest release "zip" file
curl -Lk "${DOWNLOAD_URL}" -o utplsql-cli.zip
# Extract downloaded "zip" file
unzip -q utplsql-cli.zip
```

# ut.run

The `ut` package contains overloaded `run` procedures and functions.
The `run` API is designed to be called directly by a developer when using an IDE/SQL console to execute unit tests.
The main benefit of using this API is it's simplicity.
A single line call is enough to execute a set of tests from one or more schemes.

The **procedures** execute the specified tests and produce output to DBMS_OUTPUT using the specified reporter.
The **functions** can only be used in SELECT statements. They execute the specified tests and produce outputs as a pipelined data stream to be consumed by a select statement.

## ut.run procedures

The examples below illustrate different ways and options to invoke `ut.run` procedures.

```sql
alter session set current_schema=hr;
begin
  ut.run();
end;
```
Executes all tests in current schema (_HR_).


```sql
begin
  ut.run('HR');
end;
```
Executes all tests in specified schema (_HR_).


```sql
begin
  ut.run('hr:com.my_org.my_project');
end;
```

Executes all tests from all packages that are on the _com.my_org.my_project_ suitepath.
Check the [annotations documentation](annotations.md) to find out about suitepaths and how they can be used to organize test packages for your project.


```sql
begin
  ut.run('hr.test_apply_bonus');
end;
```
Executes all tests from package _hr.test_apply_bonus_. 


```sql
begin
  ut.run('hr.test_apply_bonus.bonus_cannot_be_negative');
end;
```
Executes single test procedure _hr.test_apply_bonus.bonus_cannot_be_negative_.


```sql
begin
  ut.run(ut_varchar2_list('hr.test_apply_bonus','cust'));
end;
```
Executes all tests from package _hr.test_apply_bonus_ and all tests from schema _cust_.

```sql
begin
  ut.run(ut_varchar2_list('hr.test_apply_bonus,cust)');
end;
```

Executes all tests from package _hr.test_apply_bonus_ and all tests from schema _cust_.

```sql
begin
  ut.run('hr.test_apply_bonus,cust');
end;
```

Executes all tests from package _hr.test_apply_bonus_ and all tests from schema _cust_.

Using a list of items to execute allows you to execute a fine-grained set of tests.

List can be passed as a comma separated list or a list of *ut_varchar2_list objects* or as a list within ut_varchar2_list.


**Note:**

`ut_documentation_reporter` is the default reporter for all APIs defined for running unit tests.

The `ut.run` procedures and functions accept `a_reporter` attribute that defines the reporter to be used in the run.
You can execute any set of tests with any of the predefined reporters.

```sql
begin
  ut.run('hr.test_apply_bonus', ut_junit_reporter());
end;
```
Executes all tests from package _HR.TEST_APPLY_BONUS_ and provide outputs to DBMS_OUTPUT using the JUnit reporter. 


For details on build-in reporters look at [reporters documentation](reporters.md).

## Keeping uncommited data after test-run

utPLSQL by default runs tests in autonomous transaction and performs automatic rollback to assure that tests do not impact one-another and do not have impact on the current session in your IDE.

If you would like to keep your uncommited data persisted after running tests, you can do so by using `a_force_manual_rollback` flag.
Setting this flag to true has following side-effects:

- test execution is done in current transaction - if while running tests commit or rollback is issued your current session data will get commited too.
- automatic rollback is forced to be disabled in test-run even if it was explicitly enabled by using annotation `--%rollback(manual)

Example invocation:
```sql
begin
  ut.run('hr.test_apply_bonus', a_force_manual_rollback => true);
end;
```


This option is not anvailable when running tests using `ut.run` as a table function.   

## ut.run functions

The `ut.run` functions provide exactly the same functionality as the `ut.run` procedures. 
You may use the same sets of parameters with both functions and procedures. 
The only difference is the output of the results.
Functions provide output as a pipelined stream and therefore need to be executed as select statements.

Example.
```sql
select * from table(ut.run('hr.test_apply_bonus', ut_junit_reporter()));
```

# ut_runner.run procedures

The `ut_runner` package provides an API for integrating utPLSQL with other products. Maven, Jenkins, SQL Develper, PL/SQL Developer, TOAD and others can leverage this API to call utPLSQL.

The main difference compared to the `ut.run` API is that `ut_runner.run` does not print output to the screen.

`ut_runner.run` accepts multiple reporters. Each reporter pipes to a separate output (uniquely identified by output_id).
Outputs of multiple reporters can be consumed in parallel. This allows for live reporting of test execution progress with threads and several database sessions.

The concept is pretty simple.

- in the main thread (session), define the reporters to be used. Each reporter has it's output_id and so you need to extract and store those output_ids.
- as a separate thread, start `ut_runner.run` and pass reporters with previously defined output_ids.
- for each reporter start a separate thread and read outputs from the `ut_output_buffer.get_lines` table function by providing the output_id defined in the main thread.
  
# Reports characterset encoding

To get properly encoded reports, when running utPLSQL with HTML/XML reports on data containing national characters you need to provide your client character set when calling `ut.run` functions and procedures.

If you run your tests using `utPLSQL-cli`, this is done automatically and no action needs to be taken.

To make sure that the reports will display your national characters properly when running from IDE like SQLDeveloper/TOAD/SQLPlus or sqlcl you need to provide the charaterset manualy to `ut.run`.

Example call with characterset provided:
```sql
begin
  ut.run('hr.test_apply_bonus', ut_junit_reporter(), a_client_character_set => 'Windows-1251');
end;
```
