docs/userguide/running-unit-tests.md, before:

# Running tests

utPLSQL framework provides two main entry points to run unit tests from within database: 

- `ut.run` procedures and functions
- `ut_runner.run` procedures

Those two entry points differ in purpose and behavior.
Most of the times, you will want to use `ut.run` as the `ut_runner` is designed for API integration and does not output the results to the screen directly.

# utPLSQL-sql-cli

If you are thinking about running you tests from a command line or from a CI server like Jenkins/Temcity the best way is to use the [utPLSQL-sql-cli](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL-sql-cli)
You may download the latest release of the command line client automatically by using the below command (Unix).

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# Get the url to latest release "zip" file
DOWNLOAD_URL=$(curl --silent https://api.github.com/repos/utPLSQL/utPLSQL-sql-cli/releases/latest | awk '/zipball_url/ { print $2 }' | sed -r 's/"|,//g')
# Download the latest release "zip" file
curl -Lk "${DOWNLOAD_URL}" -o utplsql-sql-cli.zip
# Extract downloaded "zip" file
unzip -q utplsql-sql-cli.zip
```

# ut.run

Package `ut` contains overloaded procedures and functions `run`.
The `run` API is designed to be called directly by developer, when using IDE/SQL console to execute unit tests.
The main benefit of using this API is it's simplicity.
One-line call is enough to execute a set of tests form one or multiple schemes.

The **procedures** execute specified tests and produces outputs to DBMS_OUTPUT using specified reporter
The **functions** can only be used in SELECT statements. They execute specified tests and produce outputs as a pipelined data stream to be consumed by select satement.

## ut.run procedures

Below examples illustrate different ways and options to invoke ut.run procedures.

```sql
alter session set current_schema=hr;
begin
  ut.run();
end;
```
Executes all tests in current schema (_HR_).


```sql
begin
  ut.run('HR');
end;
```
Executes all tests in specified schema (_HR_).


```sql
begin
  ut.run('hr:com.my_org.my_project');
end;
```

Executes all tests from all packages that are on the _com.my_org.my_project_ suitepath.
Check the [annotations documentation](annotations.md) to find out about suitepaths and how they can be used to organize test packages for your project.


```sql
begin
  ut.run('hr.test_apply_bonus');
end;
```
Executes all tests from package _hr.test_apply_bonus_. 


```sql
begin
  ut.run('hr.test_apply_bonus.bonus_cannot_be_negative');
end;
```
Executes single test procedure _hr.test_apply_bonus.bonus_cannot_be_negative_.


```sql
begin
  ut.run(ut_varcahr2_list('hr.test_apply_bonus','cust'));
end;
```
Executes all tests from package _hr.test_apply_bonus_ and all tests from schema _cust_.

Using a list of items to execute allows you to execute a fine-grained set of tests.


**Note:**

`ut_documentation_reporter` is default reporter for all API's defined for running unit tests.

The `ut.run` procedures and functions accept `a_reporter` attribute that defines the reporter to be used in the run.
You can execute any set of tests with any of the predefined reporters.

```sql
begin
  ut.run('hr.test_apply_bonus', ut_xunit_reporter());
end;
```
Executes all tests from package _HR.TEST_APPLY_BONUS_ and provide outputs to DBMS_OUTPUT using the XUnit reporter. 


For details on build-in reporters look at [reporters documentation](reporters.md).

## ut.run functions

The `ut.run` functions provide exactly the same functionality as the `ut.run` procedures. 
You may use the same sets of parameters with both functions and procedures. 
The only difference is the output of the results.
Functions provide outputs as pipelined stream and therefore need to be executed as select statements.

Example.
```sql
select * from table(ut.run('hr.test_apply_bonus', ut_xunit_reporter()));
```

# ut_runner.run procedures

The `ut_runner` provides API for integrating utPLSQL with other products. Maven, Jenkins, SQL Develper, PL/SQL Developer, TOAD and others can leverage this API to call utPLSQL.

The main difference as compared to `ut.run` API is that the `ut_runner.run` does not print outputs to the screen.

`ut_runner.run` accepts multiple reporters. Each reporter produces outputs into a separate output (uniquely identified by output_id).
Outputs of multiple reporters can be consumed in parallel. This allows for live reporting of test execution progress with threads and several database sessions.

The concept is pretty simple.

- in the main thread (session), define the reporters to be used. Each reporter has it's output_id and so you need to extract and store those output_id's.
- as a separate thread, start the `ut_runner.run` and pass reporters with previously defined output_id's
- for each reporter start a separate thread and read outputs from `ut_output_buffer.get_lines` table function by providing the output_id defined in the main thread.

Commit message:

Minor updates to the MD documentation files
I've made a bunch of minor updates to the markdown files based on observations from reading them for the first time.
Most of them are trivial updates, but check annotations.md in particular as was unsure about the third bullet point of section "A Suitepath can be provided in three ways".

docs/userguide/running-unit-tests.md, after:

# Running tests

The utPLSQL framework provides two main entry points to run unit tests from within the database: 

- `ut.run` procedures and functions
- `ut_runner.run` procedures

These two entry points differ in purpose and behavior.
Most of the time you will want to use `ut.run` as `ut_runner` is designed for API integration and does not output the results to the screen directly.

# utPLSQL-sql-cli

If you are considering running your tests from a command line or from a CI server like Jenkins/Teamcity, the best way is to use the [utPLSQL-sql-cli](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL-sql-cli).
You may download the latest release of the command line client automatically using the command below (Unix).

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# Get the url to latest release "zip" file
DOWNLOAD_URL=$(curl --silent https://api.github.com/repos/utPLSQL/utPLSQL-sql-cli/releases/latest | awk '/zipball_url/ { print $2 }' | sed -r 's/"|,//g')
# Download the latest release "zip" file
curl -Lk "${DOWNLOAD_URL}" -o utplsql-sql-cli.zip
# Extract downloaded "zip" file
unzip -q utplsql-sql-cli.zip
```

# ut.run

The `ut` package contains overloaded `run` procedures and functions.
The `run` API is designed to be called directly by a developer when using an IDE/SQL console to execute unit tests.
The main benefit of using this API is it's simplicity.
A single line call is enough to execute a set of tests from one or more schemes.

The **procedures** execute the specified tests and produce output to DBMS_OUTPUT using the specified reporter.
The **functions** can only be used in SELECT statements. They execute the specified tests and produce outputs as a pipelined data stream to be consumed by a select statement.

## ut.run procedures

The examples below illustrate different ways and options to invoke `ut.run` procedures.

```sql
alter session set current_schema=hr;
begin
  ut.run();
end;
```
Executes all tests in current schema (_HR_).


```sql
begin
  ut.run('HR');
end;
```
Executes all tests in specified schema (_HR_).


```sql
begin
  ut.run('hr:com.my_org.my_project');
end;
```

Executes all tests from all packages that are on the _com.my_org.my_project_ suitepath.
Check the [annotations documentation](annotations.md) to find out about suitepaths and how they can be used to organize test packages for your project.


```sql
begin
  ut.run('hr.test_apply_bonus');
end;
```
Executes all tests from package _hr.test_apply_bonus_. 


```sql
begin
  ut.run('hr.test_apply_bonus.bonus_cannot_be_negative');
end;
```
Executes single test procedure _hr.test_apply_bonus.bonus_cannot_be_negative_.


```sql
begin
  ut.run(ut_varcahr2_list('hr.test_apply_bonus','cust'));
end;
```
Executes all tests from package _hr.test_apply_bonus_ and all tests from schema _cust_.

Using a list of items to execute allows you to execute a fine-grained set of tests.


**Note:**

`ut_documentation_reporter` is the default reporter for all APIs defined for running unit tests.

The `ut.run` procedures and functions accept `a_reporter` attribute that defines the reporter to be used in the run.
You can execute any set of tests with any of the predefined reporters.

```sql
begin
  ut.run('hr.test_apply_bonus', ut_xunit_reporter());
end;
```
Executes all tests from package _HR.TEST_APPLY_BONUS_ and provide outputs to DBMS_OUTPUT using the XUnit reporter. 


For details on build-in reporters look at [reporters documentation](reporters.md).

## ut.run functions

The `ut.run` functions provide exactly the same functionality as the `ut.run` procedures. 
You may use the same sets of parameters with both functions and procedures. 
The only difference is the output of the results.
Functions provide output as a pipelined stream and therefore need to be executed as select statements.

Example.
```sql
select * from table(ut.run('hr.test_apply_bonus', ut_xunit_reporter()));
```

# ut_runner.run procedures

The `ut_runner` package provides an API for integrating utPLSQL with other products. Maven, Jenkins, SQL Develper, PL/SQL Developer, TOAD and others can leverage this API to call utPLSQL.

The main difference compared to the `ut.run` API is that `ut_runner.run` does not print output to the screen.

`ut_runner.run` accepts multiple reporters. Each reporter pipes to a separate output (uniquely identified by output_id).
Outputs of multiple reporters can be consumed in parallel. This allows for live reporting of test execution progress with threads and several database sessions.

The concept is pretty simple.

- in the main thread (session), define the reporters to be used. Each reporter has it's output_id and so you need to extract and store those output_ids.
- as a separate thread, start `ut_runner.run` and pass reporters with previously defined output_ids.
- for each reporter start a separate thread and read outputs from the `ut_output_buffer.get_lines` table function by providing the output_id defined in the main thread.
