docs/index.md, before:

# Introduction to utPLSQL

utPLSQL is a Unit Testing framework for Oracle PL/SQL.
The framework follows industry standards and best patterns of modern Unit Testing frameworks like [JUnit](http://junit.org/junit4/) and [RSpec](http://rspec.info/)

  - User Guide
       - [Installation](userguide/install.md)
       - [Getting Started](userguide/getting-started.md)
       - [Annotations](userguide/annotations.md)
       - [Expectations](userguide/expectations.md)
       - [Running unit tests](userguide/running-unit-tests.md)
       - [Using the ut_run script](userguide/ut_run-script.md)
       - [Testing best pracitces](userguide/best-practices.md)
       - [Upgrade utPLSQL](userguide/upgrade.md)
  - Reporting
       - [Using reporters](userguide/reporters.md)
       - [Reporting errors](userguide/exception-reporting.md)
       - [Code coverage](userguide/coverage.md)
  - [Cheat Sheet](utplsql-v3-cheat-sheet.pdf)
  - About
       - [Project Details](about/project-details.md)
       - [License](about/license.md)
       - [Support](about/support.md)
       - [Authors](about/authors.md)
       - [Contributing](about/CONTRIBUTING.md)


# Three steps
With just three simple steps you can define and run your unit tests for PLSQL code.
 
1. Install the utPLSQL framework 
2. Create Unit Tests to for the code
3. Run the tests

Here is how you can simply create tested code, unit tests and execute the tests using SQL Developer

![3_steps](images/3_steps_to_run_utPLSQL.gif)

Check out the sections on [annotations](userguide/annotations.md) and [expectations](userguide/expectations.md) to see how to define your tests.  


# Command line 
The `ut_run` (for linux/unix) and `ut_run.bat` (for windows) are simple yet powerful.
They can provide output from the tests on the fly. 

You can also use it to have coloured outputs.

Look into [ut_run.sql script options](userguide/ut_run-script.md) to see more.

# Coverage
If you want to have code coverage gathered on your code , it's best to use `ut_run` to execute your tests with multiple reporters and have both test execution report as well as coverage report saved to a file.

Check out the [coverage documentation](userguide/coverage.md) for options of coverage reporting

Commit message:

Fixed publishing documentation history. - Fixed a bug in push_docs_to_gh_pages.sh - Added reference to utPLSQL-demo-project in index.md

docs/index.md, after:

# Introduction to utPLSQL

utPLSQL is a Unit Testing framework for Oracle PL/SQL.
The framework follows industry standards and best patterns of modern Unit Testing frameworks like [JUnit](http://junit.org/junit4/) and [RSpec](http://rspec.info/)

  - User Guide
       - [Installation](userguide/install.md)
       - [Getting Started](userguide/getting-started.md)
       - [Annotations](userguide/annotations.md)
       - [Expectations](userguide/expectations.md)
       - [Running unit tests](userguide/running-unit-tests.md)
       - [Using the ut_run script](userguide/ut_run-script.md)
       - [Testing best pracitces](userguide/best-practices.md)
       - [Upgrade utPLSQL](userguide/upgrade.md)
  - Reporting
       - [Using reporters](userguide/reporters.md)
       - [Reporting errors](userguide/exception-reporting.md)
       - [Code coverage](userguide/coverage.md)
  - [Cheat Sheet](utplsql-v3-cheat-sheet.pdf)
  - About
       - [Project Details](about/project-details.md)
       - [License](about/license.md)
       - [Support](about/support.md)
       - [Authors](about/authors.md)
       - [Contributing](about/CONTRIBUTING.md)
       
# Demo project

Have a look at our [demo project](https://github.com/utPLSQL/utPLSQL-demo-project/).

It uses [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/utPLSQL/utPLSQL-demo-project) to build on every commit, runs all tests, publishes test results and code coverage to [SonarQube](https://sonarqube.com/dashboard?id=utPLSQL%3AutPLSQL-demo-project%3Adevelop).

# Three steps
With just three simple steps you can define and run your unit tests for PLSQL code.
 
1. Install the utPLSQL framework 
2. Create Unit Tests to for the code
3. Run the tests

Here is how you can simply create tested code, unit tests and execute the tests using SQL Developer

![3_steps](images/3_steps_to_run_utPLSQL.gif)

Check out the sections on [annotations](userguide/annotations.md) and [expectations](userguide/expectations.md) to see how to define your tests.  


# Command line 
The `ut_run` (for linux/unix) and `ut_run.bat` (for windows) are simple yet powerful.
They can provide output from the tests on the fly. 

You can also use it to have coloured outputs.

Look into [ut_run.sql script options](userguide/ut_run-script.md) to see more.

# Coverage
If you want to have code coverage gathered on your code , it's best to use `ut_run` to execute your tests with multiple reporters and have both test execution report as well as coverage report saved to a file.

Check out the [coverage documentation](userguide/coverage.md) for options of coverage reporting
